## Hands-On Exercises
(1) Read first the “dig” manual of BIND9 (including the later versions), especially the
“+trace” and “+recursive” options, and answer the following questions.
(a) A query generated by dig is by default a recursive query (so that a local name 
server continues the query on behave of the client). Why is it used by dig (or resolver 
routines in other applications)? Also issue a recursive query to www.ucla.edu, and 
explain each RR in all five sections of the reply.
(b) Describe each consulted name servers in an iterative query for www.ucla.edu 
using dig.  

**[ans]**  

-----

(3) Read first the SMTP and POP3 commands. Then telnet to your SMTP server (port 25) 
and send a message to yourself. After that, telnet to your POP3 server (port 110) 
and retrieve the message. Record everything that happens on the sessions.  

**[ans]**  

-----

(5) Telnet to your Web server (port 80) and get a document using HTTP 1.0. Observe
the HTTP response headers. Record everything that happens in the session.  

**[ans]**  


## Written Exercises
(5) What RRs may be used in the following situations? Explain each of them using an
example.  

**[ans]**  

-----

(7) Webmail is Web browser based and includes support for POP3 and IMAP4. Describe
the differences between POP3 based webmail and IMAP4 based webmail.  

**[ans]**  

-----

(16) Describe the processes of setting up an active and a passive connection for FTP,
respectively (including the command and parameters used). Assume that the control 
connection has already been established on port 21.  

**[ans]**  

-----

(26) How do the audio and video messages get synchronized in streaming?  

**[ans]**  



